The Joe Rogan experience.
I think there's as much of a difference between like a black belt in jujitsu and
what would be considered an equivalent, you know, world champion and more tie.
Oh yeah. This is a big step in, step in, step in the ring and see.
Jujitsu guys sometimes get cocky about that.
I had a buddy of mine who was taking them may fight and he wasn't doing any
striking.
He was doing very little striking and he's a really good ground fighter.
And I said, do you know how you can toil with a guy on the ground?
And they really have no chance. He goes, yeah, I go, people can do that.
Do you standing? I go, you have to understand that the fight starts standing.
It's not like you start, like,
it's not EBI rules where you start on the guy's back and you know,
you have a real good chance of submitting them.
If you've got a great rear naked choke,
this is not that this is you start 20 feet away from the guy and you're
standing and you know, you have to close that distancing.
You're not a great wrestler either.
Yeah. Well that's the key component, right? Yes.
It's a giant factor, right?
If at least if you wrestle, you can go, well,
at least I'd know I have a decent chance of taking them down. Yes.
A decent chance. And even that's no guarantee anymore. Yeah. Well,
I'd go back to Mark Schultz.
When he fought in the UFC, you know,
when Mark Schultz fought in the UFC only find one UFC fight,
but that's when we got to see like a world champion Olympic gold medalist,
top of the food chain wrestler, you're only on your feet.
If you wants you to be like,
[inaudible] good luck throwing that punch or kick because he,
you have no chance.
He's going to close the distance and drag you to the ground unless you have
really good takedown defensive back back then when he fought big daddy,
Goodrich people didn't really have it unless they were wrestlers.
They didn't really have good takedown defense.
It hadn't really been established as like a part of the,
the whole skill set of MMA. Yet you basically had what you came in there with.
You're a karate guy. That's what you had your moiety tie guy.
That's what you got.
You gotta hope you land that elbow before that guy clenches with you.
And there is a,
there is a overall strategic advantage to grappling because
you can close the distance. And if you're going to punch me,
you have to get close enough to you. You have to make contact with me,
which means I can grab a hold of you and get you down. That's why,
that's why the early UFC, it was like, oh,
you're gonna have to get close enough to either punch or kick me.
And when you do that, I grab a hold of you and get you to the ground. So.
The chaos factor, especially in a street fight, the chaos factor is like,
bodies are flying this bad timing, the clenches habit. It's not like every,
you know, you'll see,
you'll watch the occasional street fight where a guy tees off on some drunk guy
and you know, it lands the perfect punch and knocks him out cold.
That does happen. Yep. But you know what also happens,
Malay wild misses. And then someone clenches.
And then the worst thing in the world is the fight. A grappler.
Who's good at takedowns when you're on the concrete. Oh,
that is the absolute worst thing in the world.
You get suplex on your head on the concrete. I mean,
one of the worst things that could ever happen to you basically getting hit in
the head by the world. Yeah.
Well, this is why I, when I talk about, you know, people say, well,
what kind of self-defense you, you always say jujitsu for self-defense,
but you know, you shouldn't let a street fight, go to the ground.
Here's here's how it works out.
If you come to me and you want to fight me and you like square off,
like in a boxing stance, I can run away from you. Right. I can just run away.
I can just run away. I'm going to get away from you. I don't want to fight you.
If you want to kick me, I can run away from you.
Like there's my primary self-defense is I'm just going to run away from you.
When you grab a hold of me now everything's different. I can't run away anymore.
Now I have to actually know how to handle myself in a grappling situation.
So that's why I start with jujitsu and look, absolutely learn boxing,
learn more time. Learn wrestling. Absolutely. No doubt about it.
But the very first thing you need to learn is, cause if you want to fight me,
I can run away. If you square off, didn't, you know,
you put your Dukes up and say, come on or you push me good. I'm running away.
That's fine. I'll take that. But when, as soon as you grab a hold of me, now,
I got a problem. Cause I can't run in weight. Right.
The real problem is the ego where people don't know how to fight and someone put
their Dukes up and they decide to see what they can do.
They decide in that moment to either fake it or just to like see if they can
possibly hit the guy. And then they get pumped, banked.
So many tees off on them.
Yeah, I think that's, uh, I think the whole thing with CTE right now,
that's why I think the popularity of jujitsu is going to continue because
it's a large part of fighting. Same with wrestling grappling in general,
I think is going to continue to get more and more popular because,
because of CT, because you know, as a parent, you're not looking, Hey, I want,
I really want my kid to be sparring a lot when they're 13, right? No,
there's not too many parents that are saying that right now.
It's not a good idea. Yeah. So I think,
but you still want your kids to know how to fight, right?
So how are we going to do that? Well,
we're going to teach them jujitsu and wrestling and let them have that base.
And then if they get older, Hey, should they know how to throw punches?
Absolutely.
Should they get in the boxing ring sometimes and do some boy time matches?
Absolutely. You should absolutely do that as a human. But you know,
you can do that when you're 17, maybe 16, you can start getting that stuff in.
But the kids jujitsu, I don't think there's anything else better for them.
Completely agree. And I think with martial arts, with striking,
it's good to know, just to know distance, just to understand where you're safe,
where you're not safe and understand tels, understand what's happening.
When someone does this, when someone does this,
and then this is common when they do this, this is coming.
Like you should know that because some people don't know that, that you,
you should know how to protect yourself, how to keep your hands up,
how to duck under things. You should know that it should,
you should understand the timing. You should understand distance and timing.
Those are important things, but
swinging knuckles with some guy in the street is so dangerous.
Cause first of all, you don't know what he knows and you're,
everyone's vulnerable. Everyone.
Every person that gets punched in the face is vulnerable.
And if you just want to have like some sort of a kickboxing match with some man
on the concrete,
like I don't advise that I advise clench and trip.
I advise get out of there. Yeah. Get out of there. Yeah. Definitely.
If someone wants to start some with you,
you're absolutely better off just swallowing your ego and getting the out of
Dodge.
Aye. That's the hor your kid books teach those kids. Hey,
there's going to be problems. There's going to be bullies.
If you can do you don't need to fight them. And what's oh,
I have somebody hit me up. You know? Cause I'm always telling people to change.
It's just trencher to, to have somebody hit me up. You know, I I've tried it.
Uh, but I don't. I want to try. And I tried it a couple of times,
but I don't like to fight. And I'm like, Hey,
if you don't like the fight to fight you more than anyone else's should learn
jujitsu. Because if you know, digit two, you probably,
your chances of having to fight will go down a lot just by the way you carry
yourself. Just the way by, by the way you present yourself,
the chance of you having to fight, go down a lot.
Also, would you Jitsu you're involved in real life struggles.
The thing about like karate sparring and a lot of points like light sparring is
it's not the real chaos that comes with an actual fight.
Whereas jujitsu is full blast. Someone's trying to get you it's full.
So you get used to full blast. You get, you get accustomed to it.
You know what to expect as someone swings for you and you clinch with them,
you know what it's like to resist with a 100% non-compliant
body, you know, someone's like, really trying to get away from you.
And really it's not like place barring. Yes, you can go.
[Inaudible].